Dear Mr. Yu-Ming Chen,

Your paper 

23-0020 
"Beyond Inverted Pendulums: Task-optimal Simple Models of Legged
Locomotion"
by Yu-Ming Chen, Jianshu Hu, Michael Posa
Evolved Paper

submitted to the IEEE Transactions on Robotics (T-RO) has been reviewed
by the Associate Editor and selected Reviewers. The reviews of the
paper are attached.

On the basis of the reviewers' ratings and comments, we regret to
inform you that your paper in the present form cannot be published in
the Transactions. However, you are encouraged to submit a revised
version of your work addressing the reviewers concerns. The revised
paper will be handled as a new submission that will be reviewed
accordingly while keeping track of the previous review material.

The paper proposes a method to automatically optimize reduced order
models (ROM) to be used for planning and model predictive control.
Extensive analysis and experiments are conducted to study a specific
type of reduced order model related to the linear inverted pendulum
model for locomotion. Experiments on the biped Cassie illustrate the
applicability of the approach. All reviewers and the associate editor
agree that the paper is well-written, addresses an important problem
and is technically sound. However in its current form, the paper raised
important concern from all the reviewers. It is recommended to address
all of them and particularly focus on the following issues:

- the choice of evaluation does not clearly demonstrate the benefits of
the approach. Indeed, performance cost decrease from an optimized ROM
does not seem to lead to a visible change in behavior and the overall
benefit of the approach is not completely clear. Even the increase in
the range of walk behavior (Fig 6 and 11) seem rather modest. As the
reviewers suggest, choosing different tasks apart from straight flat
ground walking might help highlight the benefit of the approach (at
least in simulation). For example, in the video, the difference between
the robot walking using the LIP model and the optimized ROM was not
directly visible to the associate editor. Is there a task in which a
behavioral difference would be visible? Is there a visible change in
ground reaction forces that could be highlighted?

- the use of the envelope theorem enables an elegant solution to the
bi-level optimization problem. It might be worth spending more time
discussing this aspect, e.g. remind readers about the envelop theorem
and clearly state the assumptions, such as continuity of the value
function, etc. How do these assumptions affect the applicability of the
approach? What about convergence behavior?

- the simulation/experimental sections are quite long and the authors
could consider making these sections more concise to leave more space
to address the reviewers concerns.

Additionally, the associate editor has the following (minor) question:
- A key benefit of ROM for MPC is to ensure linearity in the dynamic
model to retain a convex optimization problem and enable fast
optimization. A discussion on the impact of the approach on the
resulting MPC problem might be helpful. Would it be recommended to
restrict ROMs to linear models for MPC? How would this compare to
linearizing the dynamics and using for example PCA to extract a
low-dimensional ROM? (e.g. the approach of Yamane Humanoids 2012
“Systematic Derivation of Simplified Dynamics for Humanoid Robots”).

If you decide to resubmit, please consult the T-RO website
http://www.ieee-ras.org/publications/t-ro for instructions on
electronic resubmission. The revised manuscript should be formatted so
that any changes can be easily identified by the reviewers, by using,
e.g., colored or bold text to indicate revised passages. In addition to
the largely revised version of your paper, you should upload also a
single pdf file containing your reply to the reviewers' comments and
the list of changes made in the paper. 

If you have any related concern, do not hesitate to contact me.

Sincerely,

Eiichi Yoshida
Editor
IEEE Transactions on Robotics
