How I understand the paper:

The paper „Beyond Inverted Pendulums: Task-optimal Simple
Models of Legged Locomotion“ builds up on prior work utilizing bilevel
optimization to improve the dynamics of a reduced-order representation
of a legged robot. In particular, the computation of the inner-level
gradients is improved, an MPC scheme for the reduced-order embedding is
proposed and the application to the bipedal robot Cassie is enlarged.
For Cassie, different reduced-order models are compared in simulation
and on the robot.


Major comments:

The paper follows up on an intriguing control methodology which I
believe is a significant contribution to the field of control and
legged robots. Furthermore, the experimental results are highly
impressive and demonstrate the potential of this approach.
My major critique lies in the presentation of the paper. While the
abstract puts the model optimization approach as the core and center of
the paper with an application to Cassie, the remainder talks rather
briefly about theoretical details. Instead there is an in-depth
discussion about application specific empirical results (pages 9-15).
While the experimental data is very impressive and important for the
application part of the paper, my suggestion is to make this part
(pages 9-15) more concise and elaborate on the theory section.
Hopefully, some of the following major comments can be addressed in a
revised version:

While the ROMs dynamics are automatically tuned by the optimizer, the
topology (DOFs) of the ROM are still user-defined (handcrafted). Please
clarify this limitation in the beginning of the paper. In this context,
a discussion about variable ROM topology and its implication (mixed
integer programming) may be helpful.

The envelope theorem (Lemma 1) is listed as a main contribution of the
paper. It appears to be a smart way to compute the gradient for the
outer-level optimization, since the theorem’s result is not affected by
a change in the active set of constraints. Some more details besides
Lemma 1 would be helpful. My suggestion is to explicitly transform eq.
(TO) into a Lagrangian before using the KKT condition and the statement
of Lemma 1. Also, how do error tolerances in the TO affect the quality
of this gradient?

The paper’s discussion is also mainly centered around applying MPC to
Cassie and is missing a thorough discussion of Section III.
- How about the convergence of Algorithm 1? What’s the user-defined
tolerance/threshold for convergence? Can it be set systematically?
- Is there some more insight into the choice of basis functions? How do
they affect MPC performance? Also, some properties like
differentiability should be discussed in more detail.
- How about different objective functions in the inner-level
optimization? For example, mixing examples 1 and 3 of Table 1. This
probably includes a discussion about Pareto optimality.
- And lastly, how about applying this methodology to other legged
systems besides bipeds, e.g. quadrupeds?


Minor Comments:

Remarks on notation and representation:

In various places of the paper the phrase “zero impacts”, “zero foot
touchdown impact” or “no impact” is used without definition. It is only
clarified in footnote 9 of page 13. Please clarifiy that velocity
remains continuous when a foot touches down.

All figures appear to be raster graphics (pixelated images). Most of
them can be replaced by vector graphics, which will improve the overall
quality of the paper.

For consistency, write out all function arguments in eq. (1), e.g. M(q)
instead of M.

Eq. (2) is not consistent. Lambda is missing in the continuous dynamics
(see eq. (1) and eq. (3)) but it appears in the discrete dynamics.
Also, the holonomic constraints must be stated explicitly in this case.
Another possibility is to state the hybrid dynamics in minimal
coordinates [2] or write lambda as a function of x, i.e., holonomic
constraints are resolved on acceleration level (DAE index reduction).
After eq. (3), also explicitly state that holonomic constraints are
represented within the inequality C<=0 in eq. (3).

On page 4 it says: “Our definition is a broader definition of ROM, …”.
Please elaborate on how this is a broader definition. It seems like
comparing dynamics in minimal coordinates to dynamics defined in a
larger space on a constrained manifold. To me the second is more
general since we also have information about the ambient space of the
dynamics. In particular, when computing impact/discrete maps, this
representation might be more beneficial. 
On the other hand, using minimal coordinates will be in general more
computational efficient and accurate.

Section III.B is copied from the conference version. However, to
improve readability, consider adjusting eq. (8) and in particular eq.
(O) to draw a stronger connection to the bilevel optimization
discussion in eq. (5).

In the set of equations at the end of Section III.C, the symbol $J_i$
is undefined. Is it defined by $\dot{y}_i = J_i v_i$? Also, as before,
the last dynamics equation with $\dot{v}_i = …$ should also indicate
that $M$, $B$, $J$, … change with $i$.

When searching for energetic gaits within the task space (Table 1), it
seems very restrictive to define average speed implicitly by a fixed
stride duration and length. Why is the stride duration not kept as a
free or varying variable? Average speed on a given slope can then also
be imposed as an explicit constraint.

In Appendix A it is not clear what is meant by “a good optimal
solution” or “more optimal solution”. How can one solution be “more
optimal” than another? Is the question how to find a good seed to
initialize the TO or to have (fast) convergence to an optimal solution
within user-defined tolerance limits?

Most points discussed in Appendix A are already known tweaks to
implement TOs more successfully [48]. If there appears to be a conflict
with the page limitation, I suggest to condense or remove this part.

Attached to this review is an incomplete list of typos.
