The paper presents an algorithm to optimize and synthesize
reduced-order models for the locomotion of legged robots that are
optimal w.r.t a specific user-specified cost function. The algorithm
consists of a bilevel optimization to optimize the parameters of the
reduced-order model by solving a batch of inner-loop optimizations to
perform different tasks.
In their setting, they both plan for com trajectories and foothold
locations and rely on optimizing foothold locations to regulate the
underactuated degrees of freedom of the robot. 
Using an optimized ROM seems to produce trajectories that require
overall lower joint torques, removing unnecessary accelerations. 
The reviewer very much appreciated the fact that the authors made the
code available for reproducibility. 
The paper is very well written, interesting and the scientific approach
is convincing. I think it can represent a valuable contribution to the
field. The solution to exploit the Envelope Theorem to compute the
gradient of the outer-level objective without differentiating the
solution of the inner-level optimization with respect to the parameters
is an elengant and a very interesting outcome. 
I liked a lot the author's effort to undertake a detailed performance
evaluation and a reasoned result discussion.
However,  as far as I can see, some weak points undermine the
contribution of the paper, which I  list in the following.

* The advantage in the performances of using the optimized ROM w.r.t to
the standard LIP is not so apparent in experimental results and
simulations. In particular, it seems that the range of tasks against
which the reduced models are optimized, are mainly walking tasks on
flat terrain
with some variations in the stride length and the pelvis height. The
video shows that the motion in TO/ optimized ROM /LIP is very similar,
with forward /backward steps.
The authors clearly stated that the advantage is in terms of ground
reaction forces and smoother accelerations of the com that result in 
smaller joint torques, hence lower energy consumption. However, the
improvement seems to be very moderate (around the order of 10%-15%).
On the other hand, it seems there is an improvement in the size of what
they call the "task space" (I would rather call it the	Viable
Operating Region). It would be interesting to see template tasks in
which the optimized ROM really makes the difference in terms of
"motion". For instance an environment where there are some pallets of
different height  the robot has to climb up and down. In that case  I
would expect that the ROM would perform very differently from the LIP
because it goes beyond the constant height assumption. 
Some random lateral steps are taken in the experimental tests, but in
that case, I wonder how could the costs be compared in the optimized
and not optimized case (see detailed comments) if the user input
commands were different.  

* if the model optimization is initialized with a LIP model, in a
gradient descent setting, I have the feeling that the optimization
won't be encouraged to explore and discover reduced models that are
very different from LIP. More comments about this are welcome.
 
* the paper is sometimes a bit heavy to read, especially in section VI.
The optimization including pre-post full-order states seems to make 
the approach overly complex and makes questionable
the advantages also in terms of computational time (the MPC version
could not be implemented on the real robot). 
I think that improving (or even removing) this section could make the
paper more readable (at the price of a lower generality in case is
removed). Additionally, there are many variables to keep track of, 
the presence a glossary section might help. 

Apart from the above comments, the manuscript quality is  high, 
hereafter  I report a few detailed comments that could improve the
paper. 

Section II
- (4) explain the advantage of using the trapezoidal rule to compute
the running cost
- it is not very clear why the time intervals are included as
optimization variables; this increases a lot the dimension of the
problem 
and may introduce many issues. No comments are given on that choice,
nor a constraint on the total time, or bounds are introduced. 
- is the constraint of the kinematic loop in the 4-bar-linkage included
in fc?

Section III.C
- "the formulation of the dynamics and holonomic constraints...": As
far as i understood there are two different jacobians in these
equations: the contact jacobian and the derivative of the embedding
function r. In the gc equation you use the same name J as in the
dynamics, I would give different names to discriminate them.

Section III.E
- this section should be improved, it is a bit cryptic to understand.
What a 4D task space means? (mixed frontal lateral speed + different
heights +?), for Monomial order 4, with which cost? define what
"harder" task means. Also, the "task range" term is introduced without
definition (even if it somewhat explained later).
 
Section III.D
- "optimize the averaged sample cost over the model parameters": what
if a task has (on average) a higher cost because it involves higher 
accelerations? the ROM would be biased toward that task to favour it
w.r.t other tasks? More comments are needed about this issue. 

Section IV
- "After a reduced order model is optimized, we use it on the robot to
achieve desired tasks":  I think it is worth to declare early on how
the task distribution is created (e.g. varying which parameters).
- in Fig 5 you talk about regularization trajectories, how are they
obtained?
- eq 12: it is not clear where the -1 sign come from, isn't the robot
conventionally meant to advance forward with stepping?
- eq 13: is Z^d  a fixed goal location or is moving with the user
desired speed?
- "This demonstrates that the use of ROM greatly reduces planning
speed": this sentence is not clear, could you explain more? did you
mean planning time?
-  Table II:  how  the swing leg hip yaw /toe joints reference are
obtained ? You say somewhat later in Section VI "..the desired
trajectories for joints such as swing hip yaw and swing toe joint..."
but before there is no mention about that, just a sentence "swing foot
trajectories from Tfp with cubic splines." the reader should infer that
you are getting these joint references	from the foot spline
trajectories (e.g. from inverse kinematics?)  I think it is worth to
clarify this early on. 

Section V
- "but we have not seen the performance for out-of-distribution
tasks.": what this has to do with the fact that you do a TO with the
simplified model of Cassie? It does not seem related. 
- Fig 6: use same X axes scale for better comparison. The pictures are
effective in conveying the message the authors intend to transmit.
However, it would be interesting to see the plot of the operating
regions also for lateral stepping.  
- Fig 7: I think you should set the same pattern of velocity references
to be able to compare the costs; in the video, I saw different velocity
patterns were set for the optimized /non-optimized ROM	
- "On hardware, the performance improvement is close to 10% for walking
in place.": wasn't the robot performing omnidirectional walk in
experiments?

Section VI
- "represents the hybrid guard S and the impact mapping &#8710;" : add
a citation